As a cloud developer, during an outage,
you should be able to know where to look to find the source of the problem.
You should be able to see through the haystack of
monitoring data and zero in on the issue at hand.
Having some experience working through issues will help you to gain this intuition,
so be patient with yourself.
Imagine you're confronted with a mysterious issue on your first job as a cloud developer,
what kinds of questions should you be asking?
Well, you could ask,
what are the alerts really trying to tell me?
Can I see any odd patterns in the metrics leading up to this incident?
Or do the application logs want to tell me something?
Notice the alerts, logs,
and metrics that I just mentioned had to be put there by someone in the past.
Next time that person might have been you.
So pay attention to and try to improve the quality of alerts, logs,
and metrics so that you help the next person find the problem faster.
That next person might be you.
Of course, the quality of data only matters for the data that you actually have.
Hopefully at the moment that you need monitoring data to troubleshoot a mysterious issue,
you'll have enough of it.
That's why experienced cloud developers often add monitoring to just about everything.
Here's a list of some options.
The actual list would be way too long to fit on
one slide and I'm sure you don't want me to read them off to you,
but I'll bet you can pick out a few of the most useful ones.
Operating system, application logs, services.
Some might think too much monitoring data is a bad thing.
Distraction, it's a lot of noise.
There's alert fatigue.
There's a difference though between collecting data and acting on it.
Here's my rule, when it comes to monitoring liberal collection, conservative reporting